Journal Entry

Created: 26.09 08:28
Modified: 25.03 14:55	
Title:
MATRIX Vision Frame Grabber Drivers for Linux
Category:
	


Contents
1 Introduction
	1.1 Software Requirements
	1.2 Hardware Requirements

2 Installation
	2.1 Files
		2.1.1 First Steps
		2.1.2 Quick Start
	2.2 Kernel Parameters
	2.3 Kernel Modules
	2.4 Kernel Module Parameters
		2.4.1 Major Device Number
		2.4.2 Video Memory Address
		2.4.3 Debug Message Level
	2.5 Libraries

3 Writing Your Own Applications
	3.1 linuxtest
	
4 Special Notes for Linux
	4.1 VGA Applications

5 Copyrights etc.

1 Introduction
The standard MATRIX Vision frame grabber drivers have been ported to Linux. A 
common code base ensures that the names and parameters of all the functions are 
identical to the Windows / DOS versions. This makes porting your existing 
Windows applications to Linux especially easy.
We are constantly improving and updating so you should always take a look at 
our website for newer versions (http://www.matrix-vision.de).
The driver consists of two parts:
A kernel module (called matrixfg.o or titan.o). This handles kernel mode memory 
and I/O access.
A library which provides user programs with access to all the MATRIX Vision 
standard frame grabber functions as defined in the header file mv.h.

1.1 Software Requirements
Linux kernel 2.2.x or 2.4.x running on i386 CPU.  We have tested using 2.2.13, 
2.2.16, 2.2.18, 2.2.19, 2.4.0, 2.4.5, 2.4.12, 2.4.17. It is possible that older 
kernels will also work. You will need to have support for kernel modules turned 
on.
For the shared versions of the library, the GNU C runtime library libc6 is 
required. All recent Linux distributions should have this (e.g. SuSE Linux 6.1, 
... 7.0). The libraries have been compiled using glibc 2.2.2. on a SuSE 7.2 
installation. If you use an older version of glibc you may experience problems. 
Please contact us - we may be able to compile the library for your system.
For display functions: the svga library or for X applications, a correctly 
installed X system.
To compile the kernel modules you will need a correctly configured GNU compiler 
and at least the kernel header files installed.

1.2 Hardware Requirements
i386 compatible PC.
One of the following types of MATRIX Vision frame grabber:
MVsigma-SLC, MVdelta, PCimage-SC, PCimageSG, PCimage-SRGB PCimage-SDIG and 
MVtitan or MVcam3.

2 Installation
2.1 Files
2.1.1 First Steps
Make a new directory on your computer. Copy the contents of the linux 
subdirectory from the CD to this directory e.g. asuming the tgz file is called 
mv-driver.tgz
>cp -v /cdrom/linux/mv-driver.tgz /mypath
Unpack the tgz-file using :
>tar -xvzf mv-driver.tgz
See the README file for full details.

2.1.2 Quick Start
Make the test programs and kernel modules using:
>make <target>
where <target> is one of:    titan slc sg srgb sdig sc
depending on the framegrabber you are using.

You can install the kernel modules on your computer with:
>make install	

Or you can install and load the kernel modules using dynamic major device 
numbers (see below) on your computer with:
>make load_titan			(for the MVtitan series and Mvcam3)
or
>make load_matrixfg			(for all other MATRIX Vision 
framegrabbers)
 
2.2 Kernel Parameters
Some MATRIX Vision frame grabbers support a linear DMA buffer in Hard Live 
mode. In order to ensure that we have a linear memory area, we use a modified 
version of the allocator kernel module from Alessandro Rubini's book Linux 
Device Drivers (O'Reilly 1998 ISBN: 1-56592-292-1). This handles linear memory 
blocks above the top of the memory range usually used by the kernel (highmemory
). In order to reserve space for allocator you need to start the kernel with an 
extra parameter which instructs it to use slightly less than all the memory. 
e.g If your computer contains 128 MB of RAM start the kernel with the parameter:
mem=126M
The kernel will be able to use 126 MB of memory and 2 MB may be used by 
allocator. A computer with 64 MB of RAM should be started with:
mem=62M
Note: If you do not start your kernel using this parameter the allocator module 
will still load without an error but linear DMA access will not work correctly 
(and is not needed by some frame grabbers). The amount of high memory you 
should reserve depends on the resolution and colour depth you are going to use 
and on your application.

2.3 Kernel Modules
As an alternative to the make commands described in 2.1 above you can create 
the kernel modules individually, if you want:
Login as root. Change directory to the driver/os/linux/allocator and  
driver/os/linux/matrixfg (or  driver/os/linux/titan for MVtitan) subdirectories 
in succession and compile the kernel modules using the following command in 
each directory:
>make
You can install the kernel modules (allocator.o and matrixfg.oor titan.o) by 
copying them to the appropriate directory on your computer (e.g. 
/lib/modules/2.2.16/misc) or by editing the target install in the file Makefile
, if necessary, and then typing this command in the appropriate directory:
>make install
You can now load the kernel modules using make load or calling the script 
mvload matrixfg (or mvload titan) to be found in the bin subdirectory. This 
will also create the appropriate device nodes after loading the modules. The 
script mvunload matrixfg unloads both modules and deletes the device nodes. 
N.B. Device numbers for MATRIX Vision frame grabbers have not yet been 
officially assigned so we use a dynamic major device number technique which 
will usually assign a number of 254. See the script mvmodprobe or Rubini's book 
for more details. If you want to assign a fixed number (e.g. one of the numbers 
used for experimental drivers, for example 60) you can load matrixfgwith a 
parameter (see below). Fixed major numbers also allow automatic loading of the 
kernel modules if you enter the appropriate alias lines in /etc/modules.conf.  
If everything has worked correctly you should see that both allocator and 
matrixfg(or titan) have been loaded by using the command:
>lsmod
This will list all the loaded kernel modules like this....

Module                  Size  Used by
matrixfg               17212   0  (unused)
allocator               2104   0  [matrixfg]
... etc.

>

You may also inspect the system log for debug messages from these modules.

2.4 Kernel Module Parameters
The kernel modules matrixfgor titan may be loaded using one or more of the 
following parameters:

2.4.1 Major Device Number
major_dev_num=n	(integer) 
e.g major_dev_num=60. Tells the kernel module to use the device with a major 
device number of 60. If you do not use this parameter or you set the number to 
0, the kernel module will choose its own major device number.

2.4.2 Video Memory Address
vidmem=p			(long)
e.g. vidmem=0xd8000000. Tells the kernel module to assume that the VGA card's 
linear memory begins at the address specified. This should only be needed if 
your VGA card is not recognized automatically by the kernel module. Check the 
output in the system log when loading matrixfg (or titan) to see which address 
is being used. If necessary, check the list of PCI devices (>cat /proc/pci) to 
see the possible addresses used by your VGA card.

2.4.3 Debug Message Level
debug=n			(long)
e.g. debug=0x3b. Tells the kernel module to output more debug messages in the 
system log.

2.5 Libraries
The libraries are supplied as shared versions. The libraries are to be found in 
the subdirectory lib. Copy the appropriate library file for your frame grabber 
to the standard library path on your computer e.g. /usr/lib. Alternatively you 
may leave the libraries in the lib subdirectory or copy the library to any 
other directory but you will have to set the environment variable 
LD_LIBRARY_PATH to include this directory. e.g. for the bash shell...
>export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$ LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/mypath/lib
Yet another alternative is to change the configuration file for your ldconfig 
command or use the mvldconfig script in the MATRIX Vision bin directory

The shared libraries contain the version number within the name. e.g. if the 
library for the MVsigma-SLC is called libslc.so.3.22.0, you will find symbolic 
links to the libraries within the lib directory:
>ls -l lib
drwxrwxr-x	3	technik  users        1024 Sep 25 17:20 .
drwxrwxrwx	21	technik  users        2048 Sep 25 17:26 ..
lrwxrwxrwx	1	technik  users          16 Sep 24 09:53 libslc.so -> 
libslc.so.3.22.0
lrwxrwxrwx	1	technik  users          16 Sep 24 09:54 libslc.so.3 
-> libslc.so.3.22.0
-rwxrwxr-x	1	technik  users      561114 Aug 30 13:11 
libslc.so.3.22.0

>

The following is a list of the libraries available and their function. The 
names of the libraries actually supplied may vary depending on the current 
version/build number (e.g. libtitan.so.1.0.2 instead of libtitan.so.1.0.1).
Name	Frame grabber	Notes
libmvos.so	All except MVtitan series	Common functions for most frame grabbers running 
under Linux
libmvvga.so	All except MVtitan series	Display using (s)vgalib
libmvx11.so	All except MVtitan series	Display using X
libmvnodisp.so	All except MVtitan series	Dummy for no live display
libmvvgattn.so	MVtitan series	Display using (s)vgalib
libmvx11ttn.so	MVtitan series	Display using X
libsg.so	PCimage-SG	
libsrgb.so	PCimage-SRGB	
libsdig.so	PCimage-SDIG	
libslc.so	MVsigma-SLC, MVdelta	
libtitan.so	MVtitan series and MVcam3	


3 Writing Your Own Applications
A number of test applications have been included to show you how to write 
programs that use the MATRIX Vision frame grabber driver. Some of these test 
programs may not be contained in the driver version you receive but at least 
linuxtest should always be available.

3.1 linuxtest
The files contained in the subdirectory linuxtest can be used to make simple 
test programs for all the MATRIX Vision frame grabbers. An image will be shown 
on the screen in hard live mode. You can make VGA or X versions. The program 
will work best with the MVdelta, MVsigma-SLC or PCimage-SG but you will have to 
adjust the palette and color conversion routines to get a correct display with 
other MATRIX Vision frame grabbers. e.g. To make the test programs for the 
MVtitan use...
>make titan
The command....
>xtitantest --help
... will show a list of possible parameters for the test program.
See the README file in the linuxtest directory for more details.

4 Special Notes for Linux
4.1 VGA Applications
When using the VGA library for display you should add an extra, as yet 
undocumented function to the INI file used to initialize the frame grabber:
UseLibVga 1024 768 8 0

The parameters are...
1. x resolution in pixels for the display.
2. y resolution in pixels for the display.
3. Color depth in pixels for the display.
4. Set to 0 if using the first 3 parameters.
Alternatively you may specify a number representing the VGA mode as the fourth 
parameter and leave the first three parameters as 0. See the VGA library 
documentation for details about the modes. e.g.
UseLibVga 0 0 0 12

will set VGA mode 12.
N.B. In order to change VGA modes you need access rights as root.


5 Copyrights etc.
We have tried our best to adhere to the terms of all software licences. Please 
contact us if you feel we have misinterpreted anything.

Some of the original work on the matrixfgand titan kernel modules was based on 
the source code for the bttv driver, in particular the routines to detect the 
VGA card and some memory management routines. Since the original code was 
released under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL), we are happy 
to supply our kernel module source code and give full credit to the original 
authors (see header files). Our kernel driver source code is therefore also 
released under the terms of the GPL, the full text of which may be found in the 
file GPL/COPYING.

The allocator module is Copyright © 1998 Alessandro Rubini and is released 
under the terms of the GPL. We have made some alterations which are documented 
in the source files.

The tutorial and test program for X are Copyright ©1998- 2000 MATRIX Vision 
GmbH and are distributed under the terms of the GPL. Please note that KDE/QT 
programs you develop may require a commercial license from TrollTech unless you 
also distribute them under the GPL or QPL, See http://www.trolltech.no  or 
http://www.trolltech.com for more details.

The VGA library used by some of the display libraries is free software and may 
be distributed and modified without restriction. The X libraries appear to be 
distributed under similar terms. See the header files on your Linux system for 
details.

The GNU C library is distributed under the terms of the GNU Library General 
Public License (GLPL). Applications. According to the terms of this license, 
"work that uses the library" is not restricted by the license. The full text of 
this license may be found in the file GPL/GLPL.html.

The frame grabber shared libraries for MATRIX Vision frame grabbers are based 
solely on the original Windows source code developed by us. These files are 
Copyright © 1992-2001 MATRIX Vision GmbH and the source code is not included 
here. You may distribute the binaries together with your own applications if 
you include the above Copyright notice in your documentation.

Programs that use kernel services and functions are not derived form the kernel 
and are therefore not covered by the GPL like the kernel sources themselves.

The library libtitan.so.x.x for the MVtitan series of frame grabbers and for 
the MVcam3 uses some binary code from the Trimedia® code relocation library 
(libload.a) supplied by Philips. These functions are © Copyright Philips 
Semiconductors Trimedia Product Group 1997-2000.



MATRIX Vision Linux Team
support@matrix-vision.de
Last changed: March 2002










 






